hi and welcome to this week's episode of
the real estate report on the finance
news network I'm Nicola dill this week
we look at to Victorian property markets
that are posting sensational growth and
are also on the affordable side we talk
with solar shop Australia managing
director Adrian Ferrero about the
renewable energy target that was
recently passed through the Senate
including the Solar Credit Scheme and
how it will work and in this week's tip
we look at how much you should spend
when planning a renovation on an
investment property but first let's
catch up on the latest property news
with Emma Pearson thanks Nicola in
property news home owners will have to
fork out around an extra $40 a month in
mortgage repayments following the RBA's
decision to again raise interest rates
lifting the official cash rate by 25
basis points to 3 point 5 percent all
four major banks have responded to the
central banks rate rise by increasing
variable mortgage interest rates and
some deposit accounts with the ANZ Bank
leading the charge in other news at the
ABS reports the building approvals rose
2.7 percent in September the eighth
month of positive growth in building
activity in another report the bureau
says the weighted average price for
established houses across the aged
capital city's increased 4.2 percent in
the September 2009 quarter leading the
increase weighted average was Sydney
with a 4.3 percent increase Melbourne
with 4.7 percent and Perth with 4.5
percent and the Federal Housing Minister
Tanya Plibersek says that state
government and local government council
industry taxes are squeezing first home
buyers out of the market minister
ploobis egg has been backed by the Urban
Development Institute of Australia
saying the government levies were
contributing to the housing shortage by
making development unprofitable and now
back to you Nicola thanks Emma in a
suburb in focus section each week we
look at interesting property markets
around Australia which could be of
interest to property investors and this
week we're looking at two affordable
Melbourne suburbs that have
an extraordinary growth in the last year
we're looking at the house market in
Atwood but first up is the unit market
in sunshine which is located about 13
kilometres west of Melbourne CBD
sunshine has about 8,000 residents 63%
of dwellings contain families 64% of
families include children 80% of
properties are standalone houses 31% are
rental properties which is quite high
sunshine has a long history of being a
center for manufacturing in industry but
in recent years industry in the suburb
has declined leaving an unemployment
rate of around 11% in 2006 the median
unit price in sunshine is 255 thousand
dollars which is an increase of over 45
percent compared to a year ago there
were 23 units sold in the 12 months to
September 30 and 85 were rented out the
median rental price is $190 bringing the
gross rental yield to three point eight
seven percent now to the house market in
Ashwood which is located about a 20
kilometer drive north of Melbourne CBD
and had a population of just 3,000 in
2006 and has a very low unemployment
rate adword is mainly made up of housing
estates with standalone houses
accounting for 87% of properties 83% of
properties of families and 79% of these
families include children just 10% of
homes in the suburb are rental
properties the median house price in
Atwood is four hundred and eighty five
thousand dollars which is over forty
percent higher compared to a year ago
there've been 33 houses sold in the 12
months to September 30 the median rent
price for a house in the suburb is three
hundred and twenty dollars which brings
the gross rental yield to three point
four three percent this week in our
interview we speak with solar shop
Australia managing director Adrian of
Farah retro about the renewable energy
target which has recently been passed
through the Senate including the Solar
Credit Scheme and how it will work and
how much a solar power system is likely
to cost
well the renewable energy target bill is
legislation that requires energy
wholesalers to produce 20% of their
energy from renewable sources like solar
and wind and hydro we knew hydro by the
year 2020 so 20% of the energy from 2020
has to be from renewable sources the way
they approve that their Energy's from
renewable sources is by surrendering to
the office of the Renewable Energy
Regulator renewable energy certificates
when you install a solar system on your
house you can generate renewable energy
certificates under the solar credit
scheme and then you can sell them to one
of these energy wholesalers through your
solar retailer which convinced to render
it under the legislation to the office
of the Renewable Energy Regulator and so
when you sell one of these credits you
roughly get something like you know 40
or 50 dollars for it and your system may
generate a hundred and fifty of these
credits they could be valued around
$7,000 or $8,000 for a solar system and
now to the tip for this week
this week we're looking at the question
of how much to spend when renovating
your investment property now the main
goal of renovating an investment
property is to build more value into the
property and also to attract good
tenants who pay higher rent some
renovators spend more on assets like
carpet electrical appliances air
conditioners and security systems then
they will on Capitol items because of
the depreciation benefits the other
advantage is that tenants will be
attracted by these extra benefits and
will allow you to charge a premium rent
the biggest risk is over capitalizing
and to avoid doing that it's a good idea
to compare the value of your investment
property with the median selling price
in your area for the type of dwelling
and then don't spend more than the
difference if you already have good
tenants and a happy with the rent being
charged then the only time you may
consider doing a renovation is at the
point of sale and again it's important
not to spend more than you need to and
that is the real estate report for
Monday the 9th of November thanks for
joining us I'm Nicola deal and I hope
you can join us again next week